>>In part one of our
interviews with Ralph Ellis,
he shared his research
into the roots
of some of the most
illustrious characters
from the Old Testament.
In this interview
Ralph discusses
what he believes to be the
roots, or family tree as it
were, of Jesus.
In brief, Ralph's research,
based on the books of Josephus,
who diaried events he witnessed,
along with information
contained in the
original Torah, suggest
Jesus was not only
high born, but mighty.
Where we last left
off, we were talking
about the similarities
between Egyptian history
and the Old Testament and
the plight of the Israelites,
how a lot of the names,
the buildings, the family
structures, et cetera,
actually overlay each other
in a more than convenient way.
So now we're going to
continue along that line.
You've written a book called,
Jesus, Last of the Pharaohs.
And this would be quite
shocking to a lot of people.
So let's go ahead and
dive right into it
because we're going to
assume they've already
watched the previous interview.
OK?
So getting into the
bloodline of Jesus,
let's start right there
with Jesus' ancestry
according to what you've been
able to glean from the texts.
And this also takes up
on the next book as well.
So it's not just Jesus,
Last of the Pharaohs.
But it's also Cleopatra
to Christ as well.
Jesus, Last of the
Pharaohs was my first book.
And I wrote this, and
I said quite clearly
at the end of this
book that Jesus
had to be from
the Egyptian royal
line, hence the name of the
book, Last of the Pharaohs.
But I didn't know where
you could hang him
on the Egyptian royal line.
I didn't know from
what era he sprang
or from which part
of the royal line.
And so this sort of
waited for several years
until I could get my research
into this going again.
And so I had this problem.
And the basic problem was I
knew that Jesus was royal.
There are many
parts of the Bible
that sort of hint
at him being royal.
>>And this is popping up in
a lot of different literature
now.
Absolutely.
Yes, it's all over.
I mean--
>>He wasn't a lowly carpenter.
>>Indeed, no.
The carpenter business
came from Setepenra,
which was one of the titles
of the pharaohs of Egypt.
Setepenra means the
gods' carpenter.
He was King of the Jews.
So we knew he was royal.
Christ, he was the Christ.
Christ means King.
That's all it means.
It means King.
So we knew he was royal.
I knew he was something to do
from the Egyptian royal line
because if you do a
comparison between the Bible
and Josephus, his works,
it's clear that he was also
called the Egyptian
false prophet.
So again, we have
this link to Egypt.
And we know that Jesus went
to Egypt for his education.
So we have this link.
He was royal.
And he was also something
to do with Egypt.
>>Although in the
Bible, it would really
be interpreted more as a status
of his morality and position,
as God's Son, as
the King of Man.
>>That's rather convenient.
>>So you're saying it's
actually quite literal.
>>He was literally a royal.
But we have another
problem here.
And that is that
at his birth it is
said that he was
visited by the Magi.
Now, the Magi were the
priesthood of Persia,
or Parthia.
But they were not
only the priesthood.
They were also the
king-makers of Parthia.
Now, when Jesus was born--
And I'm taking him to be
born in A.D. 4 or A.D. 6,
at the time of the
taxation event.
Now, at that time, the throne of
Parthia, or Persia, was empty.
So what were the
Parthian-Persian king makers
doing at Jesus' birth, looking
at Jesus as a potential mark.
So we have a problem here.
What I was looking
for was a monarch,
a prince, who was of
the Egyptian royal line,
of the Persian royal line,
but somehow exiled in Judea
in circumstances
of semi-poverty.
So is it possible?
Could we find a
royal family that
was exiled into
Judea at this time?
Well, funnily enough, there was.
The king and queen of Persia
were exiled to Syrio-Judea,
just to the East of the
River Jordan, in A.D. 4.
So here we have a royal family
out of Persia, exiled to Judea,
living in a state of
poverty in Syrio-Judea.
So this was rather interesting.
This is real history.
People know about this.
But, of course, it's
very easy for historians
to sideline sections of
history because it's not
the sort of part of history
you will actually come across
if you go through
history at school
or even if you do
history at university.
It's not a part of history
you're likely to know about.
It's a forgotten history.
So I started looking
further into the history
of this particular royal family.
And it seems likely to me--
The reasons are complex.
And I don't want to go into
all of the circumstances.
But it seems to me, this lady,
the queen that was exiled,
was the daughter
of Cleopatra VII.
the lost daughter
Now, we know Cleopatra
had several children.
And this lady was given to
the Persian King Phraates IV
as a diplomatic gift.
Now, it says in the text
that she was a prostitute.
But that is not
the sort of person
you give as a diplomatic gift.
This was Augustus,
Caesar of Rome.
He was having a great deal
of problems with Persia.
Persia was the biggest
kingdom on his eastern border.
He had had a lot of problems.
They had lost two major
battles against the Persians.
He wanted to give a
spectacular gift to Phraates
to end the hostilities.
And he gives Phraates
a prostitute?
I don't think so.
So who was this
lady that he gave?
And for many
reasons, she just has
to be the lost daughter
of Cleopatra VII.
So now we have all
of the elements
that I was looking for.
This queen was not only queen of
Persia, married to Phraates IV,
but she was also of the
Egyptian royal line.
She was the daughter
of Cleopatra.
And they reigned for
a number of years.
So she became chief.
She didn't just become
the wife of this King.
She became chief wife.
And her son became
the prince of Persia.
So again, very strange,
you know, this prostitute,
she suddenly becomes
chief wife of Persia.
But then they had a problem,
which we'll come to maybe a bit
later.
And she fell foul of the regime.
And they were kicked
out of Persia.
And so off they went with 200
courtiers and 600 cavalry,
archers, so mounted archers.
So she had her own
bodyguards, 600 archers.
And they were exiled into Judea.
So as I said before, we
come back to the fact
that we were looking
for a royal prince born
in some degree of
poverty in Syrio-Judea.
And here we have
this royal family
in exactly the
same circumstances.
Now, this lady, this queen
was called Thea Musa Armenia
Urania.
And so the area that
she settled in, just
to the East of the River
Jordan, just to the East of Oman
became the kingdom of Urania.
She set up a city-state,
a new city-state,
called Urania, after her name.
So it was known as
the kingdom of Urania.
And it's still called
that now actually.
It's called the Huron, which
comes from the same name.
But if we translate that
into English, of course,
the kingdom of Urania becomes
the kingdom of heaven.
And that was its name.
So here we have this prince
born to this queen, who
came from the kingdom of heaven.
And that's where I start linking
the early part of the New
Testament into real history.
And that is where I believe
Jesus was descended from.
So he was a prince, a very
well connected prince.
And we can now
see perhaps why he
was so important in this era.
We're not just looking
for a nobody carpenter.
>>A rebel rouser.
>>Why would a--
I suppose a few people who
come from lowly backgrounds
do too rise up through the
system, I suppose, but--
Here we're looking
for a prince who
made his mark in this
era in this area,
in fact, in the wider region.
And this was the
sort of prince that
could've done exactly that.
He would have been descended
from the royal line of Egypt,
from Julius Caesar, from
the royal line of Persia,
and also from the royal line
of North Africa, Mauritania.
So here was a prince
that could've--
>>And this you have this lineage
in your book for people to be
able to--
>>It's a complex lineage.
So it's difficult
to go through it.
>>And you would have to
say the evidence is there.
It's beyond circumstantial
evidence in your mind.
Or would you still say
it is circumstantial?
>>Some is circumstantial
because there
are elements that are missing.
And so we can only look at the
links that link them together
because there is no
definitive text that says,
yes, this woman was the
daughter of Cleopatra.
However, we do know that
Cleopatra was pregnant
when she fled from Rome.
What we don't have
is a text that
says where this child went.
And then we have
this strange woman
who pops up 20 years later.
And so yes, some of the
links are circumstantial.
But when you look at this
lady, what she looks like,
who she was, what her name was,
all of those link straight back
into the line of
Cleopatra and to Egypt,
especially her
contentious marriage,
which even Jesus talks about.
This is one of the links.
>>Can you talk about this a bit?
>>Yes.
We're probably jumping ahead
of ourselves a little bit here.
But one of the reasons
why I am convinced
that this has to
do with Jesus is
because he talks of this
contentious marriage.
It's one of his parables
that he talks about.
And this was such a
strange, unusual event
that it would seem inconceivable
that he would mention
this strange marriage
if it was not
something to do with his family.
And here we come to the
reason why he could not
be included in the biblical
text because, OK, we
have this prince,
very influential, very
well connected.
So why don't they admit that?
Why can't they say, this
is our hero, big prince?
Well, there's two main reasons.
Firstly, it wasn't his
church, as we said before,
in our previous interview.
Christianity was
the church of Saul,
nothing to do with
the church of Jesus.
Saul wanted this tale
about a lowly carpenter,
et cetera, which didn't really
fit in with the story of Jesus
being a prince.
But perhaps more
importantly, he also
wanted to be head of the Church.
And after him,
obviously, Saint Peter.
How could he be the
head of the Church,
and all the popes later on
be the head of the Church
if we had a royal bloodline
the was still living?
And surely they
would, of course,
have been the head
of the Church.
So the popes, of course,
of the Catholic Church
are effectively priest kings.
They are kings of the Church.
But how can they be a
priest king of the church
if we have a real bloodline
prince still living
in that era?
>>So he had to, essentially,
be knocked off of his throne
to a lower status.
>>All Saul wanted was an icon.
So he had this picture
he could hold up.
He had this icon.
The last thing he wanted
was this real prince
with real sons
and real daughters
still living somewhere
in the Far East.
He couldn't be
head of the Church
if this person was still there.
And so they had to be sidelined.
They had to be taken
out of the picture.
So that's one of the reasons
why this prince was taken out
effectively.
The other reason is
that the circumstances
of this royal family's
life did not fit in, again,
with the story he
was trying to preach.
Saul's story is about
an ideal family,
the Waltons of the first
century A.D. Unfortunately,
the reign of Thea Musa Urania
was not quite so idyllic.
Thea Musa herself
killed her husband.
And she then married her son.
And of course, this
is one of the reasons
I say that she was of
the Egyptian royal line
because this was normal
practice, of course,
for the Egyptian royal line.
>>Right.
I mean, when people hear
this, we immediately,
ugh, start freaking out
by today's standards.
But in truth, that was
common in bloodlines.
>>Yes, and those standards
that you're saying we have this
reaction to--
>>Incest.
>>Incest, yes.
--was created by Saul, of
course, in a later era.
So going back into
Egypt especially
during the Ptolemaic royal
line, the most important thing
for the royal family--
And of course,
incest wouldn't have
been a normal thing for
all Egyptians, of course.
We're talking about
the royal family here.
And within the royal family,
the most important thing
was the maintenance
of the bloodline.
And how to do that?
Well, you keep it
within the family.
And so if we go
back into Egypt, we
find that sibling marriage was
very common, almost mandatory.
If we look at Akhenaten,
for instance, Akhenaten
married two of his
daughters, maybe three.
It's possible that
Nefertiti was his sister.
>>I thought she was
his half sister.
>>Yeah, she could have
been a half sister.
>>Hard to say.
>>It's very confused in that
era, so we're not quite sure.
But certainly she would
have been a close relative.
If you come down into
the Ptolemaic era--
That's the era of the Greek
pharaohs of Egypt, of course.
--all of the Greek
pharaohs of Egypt
married a sibling
of some nature.
Cleopatra herself married
two of her brothers.
And so this was perfectly
normal for the royal family,
mandatory even, to maintain
the bloodline in its purity.
And that is why I say
that Thea Musa Urania was
of the Egyptian royal line
because she was keeping
the same consanguinity rules as
they did in Egypt, which places
her strongly within the
Egyptian royal line.
Now, we know this
wasn't a Persian custom
because that is the reason they
kicked her out of the country.
So quite clearly incest
was not a Persian custom.
It was Egyptian.
And that's why I say
she was Egyptian.
And so that is the reason
she was kicked out of Egypt.
Now, this has a big bearing
on Saul's perspective.
>>I was just going
to say in casting
the Egyptians as the
root of all evil.
>>Yes.
>>OK.
>>And the demonization,
of course, of incest.
How do you eradicate
a royal line?
Well, you stop them doing
their usual customs.
And one of the usual
customs, of course,
of the Egyptian royal
line was incest.
And if you make
incest taboo, you've
just ruined the royal family.
>>Well, you look at this as
in pedigrees of other species,
this is always what's
done to keep the pedigree.
>>Yes, indeed.
It was a royal pedigree.
And it's still actually.
And it's my strong belief that
it is still carried out today.
However, of course, to
maintain the normal rules we
have in our society, of
course, all the marriages
occur within close
relatives, cousins.
But you can still maintain
the bloodline, but just
by having two separate lines
and marrying between cousins.
So I'm sure it's still carried
out to some respects today.
>>So how does this now going
back to the birth of Jesus?
>>Yes, so we have our prince.
And we have all the reasons
for the New Testament story,
why this prince was important,
why he became a leader.
And if we go back into the
works of Josephus again,
he says that at this very
time a fourth sect of Judaism
was set up.
And so I don't think that
Jesus was of the Essene sect.
>>I was just going to
ask you about that.
>>Yes.
There were three main sects,
the Sadducees, the Pharisees,
and the Essene.
But there was also
a fourth sect.
And I think Jesus was
of this fourth sect.
Because this fourth sect was
very, very closely related
to this area I'm talking
about, to the East of the River
Jordan, which was called
Bethania, Bethany.
Excuse me.
And that's probably where we
get the biblical Bethany from.
And this particular fourth
sect maintained its own army,
just as Thea Musa
Urania had her own army,
and just as Jesus had
his own army as well.
And we'll come onto
that in a little bit.
So I think he was of this
fourth sect of Judaism.
And it's probably
from this fourth sect
that the Essenes were a
later branch off from them.
And the main concern
of the fourth sect
was taxation because Thea
Musa Urania, when she set up
her city-state, was
given the lands tax-free.
And the reason that
was done, of course,
was because she, with
her independent army,
could act as a mercenary army
for Herod, Herod Archelaus.
>>Now, just to set
the record straight,
you're talking about
Mary, the one who
would be known as
Mary in the Bible?
>>I think it might have
been Jesus' grandmother.
I think there was probably
another generation.
So I think Mary herself was
Thea Musa Urania's daughter.
So we're jumping
one more generation.
And the daughter
of Thea Musa Urania
was known as Julia Urania.
She virtually had the same name.
And that is the generation,
I think, of Jesus.
So she would have
been Jesus' mother.
>>Sorry.
I didn't mean to sidetrack you.
>>No, that's fine.
It's a complicated history.
>>Yes, very complicated.
So I just want to
keep the thread going.
So you were talking
about taxation.
>>Well, we know that Jesus had
a lot of problems with taxation.
We know the turning
over the tables,
et cetera, in the temple.
But also one of the main
accusations against him
was that he consorted with
publicans and sinners.
Now, publicans has been
very badly translated
because the word actually
means tax collector.
And so one of the main
accusations against him
was that he was consorting
with tax collectors.
So we know that one
of the main problems
that Jesus was having
was over taxation.
And these people to the
East of the River Jordan
had this tax-free status.
And that tax-free status
was causing some friction,
and they wanted to end it.
And of course,
they didn't want it
ended because that's
how they maintained
their own private army.
And as I said before, Jesus
also had his own army.
Now, that might sound
a little bit peculiar.
But in order to find out these
historical details about Jesus,
we need to be able to find
further texts because the Bible
doesn't give the full story.
And surprisingly enough, there
are other texts about Jesus.
It's just that they
are totally ignored.
Where do we find these texts?
Within the books of Josephus.
Now, in order to
clarify this, we
need to know who Josephus was.
Josephus was the army commander
in command of Galilee.
And he later became the
primary historian of this era.
And he wrote his
own old testament
and his own new
testament effectively.
So we have the complete
history of Judea from Josephus.
But who was he?
Or rather perhaps I
should turn this around.
Who was Saul?
Here we have Saul, we
were talking about before,
who was the founder
of Christianity.
He was the most important person
perhaps in the last 2000 years.
And they've lost him.
How do you lose all
these important people
from the historical record?
I didn't believe that was true.
It can't be true that
we lose so many people.
So I started to look for Saul
within the historical record.
And I suddenly found there were
about 24 points commonality
between the life of Saul
and the life of Josephus.
And so I came to the
conclusion in the end
that Saul was Josephus because
they had the same goals.
They had everything in common.
They both wrote
histories of that era.
But this is
interesting because--
>>Now, wouldn't that
make it slightly skewed
if you say there was a
specific agenda with Saul.
>>Well, there was.
He very much had his
own agenda, of course.
And so did--
>>So you're saying Josephus'
agenda lines up with--
>>Absolutely.
>>--Saul's?
OK.
>>Completely.
They were both traitors to
the system, effectively.
They both changed sides twice.
So Saul tried to join
the Church of Jesus,
and then was kicked
out or whatever
and went off on his own.
You know, he had his flash
of inspiration on the road
to Damascus because
Saul was persecuting
the Church of Jesus
and James, of course.
And it doesn't mention
how within the Bible.
How was he persecuting them
and sending them to prison?
Who was he?
Under what jurisdiction
did he send them to prison?
It's not mentioned.
But Saul tried to join the
Church of Jesus and James
and then split off
and went his own way.
And then we look at Josephus,
and he did exactly the same.
Josephus was the army commander
in command of Galilee.
And his main opponent that
he was chasing around Galilee
was Jesus.
>>I see.
>>Now, conventional
historians will say, oh,
it's a different Jesus.
No, this was the same
Jesus because this Jesus
was Jesus of Gamala,
who owned his own army.
And so he was the rebel
leader of 600 fishermen.
So who in this era was the
rebel leader of 600 fishermen?
We can only be talking
about the biblical Jesus.
And so Josephus does
exactly the same as Saul.
He was the chief of
police in that era.
He was persecuting
this particular Jesus
And his band of rebel fishermen.
He then sort of
tried to join them.
And then, of course, after
some disputes with the Romans
and after the siege
of [? Japala, ?]
he went off on his own.
And he changed sides
again, just as Saul did.
So again, he
changed sides twice.
And this is one of
amongst many reasons
why I think they are the same.
But the important thing is it
then gives us a new insight
into the life of Jesus
because the whole of Josephus'
discussion about this
era was his battles
with this person called Jesus.
And this gives us a
completely new set
of texts that detail the
life of the biblical Jesus.
And it seems that
this particular Jesus
was quite important.
He was the governor of Tiberius.
And he owned a castle.
And he also was the
leader of 600 soldiers.
And again, here we start linking
back into the fourth sect
and to Thea Musa
Urania, who also
had their own
independent army, exactly
the same as this Jesus did.
And so it seems likely that
Jesus had his own armed forces.
Now, you might say, well,
that's completely impossible.
That's just not present
within the Bible.
But it is.
It's in the Bible as well.
You just have to
look for the texts.
And we come back to
sort of Matthew 10:34,
where Jesus says, I don't
come to bring peace.
I come not to bring
peace to the world.
I come to bring a sword.
That's what he said.
And then we have the event
on the Mount of Olives, which
is a curious affair
because we have
Jesus and his disciples on
the Mount of Olives at night,
and they're surprised
by the Roman guard.
Well, just before this
happens, of course, Luke 22:36,
he tells his disciples
to go out and buy swords.
Sell your purse and your
wallet, and go and buy swords.
The disciples come
back with swords.
And he says, it's enough.
So here we have a
different sort of Jesus
to what we're expecting.
It's not a Jesus that is
preached from the pulpit.
We don't get these
verses from the pulpit.
This is a revolutionary Jesus.
And of course, that's what
Jesus the Galilean means.
We say Jesus of Galilee.
Well, what does Galilee mean?
It means a circle,
a revolutionary.
So here we have this event
on the Mount of Olives
at night, where they're
surprised by the Roman guard.
And they're surprised
by not just one
or two Romans that come up.
They're surprised
by a [? spirah ?],
a cohort, 600 fully
armed centurions.
So can we have a different
angle on this particular event?
And this is the advantage with
having Josephus and his texts.
Because yes, we do
because Josephus
writes exactly the same account.
The only difference
is that Josephus
says there were 30,000 armed
people on the Mount of Olives.
And the intent was to
take Jerusalem by force.
And of course,
the leader of this
was the Egyptian false
prophet, Jesus himself.
And so it's clear from
these different texts
that we're talking about a rebel
leader, a man of influence,
a man with a great
number of followers,
who was interested in the
secular politics of that era.
Although within
Judaism, of course,
you cannot separate
politics and religion.
It's identical.
But here we have
a rebel leader who
is going to take
Jerusalem by force.
But they were foiled, of
course, because the Roman guard,
in both versions, the
Roman guard comes out,
and they are scattered.
And that's the end of the
bid to take Jerusalem.
And so here we have a
completely different perspective
on the events of
the New Testament.
>>So we go now into his life.
And as many books are
coming out about Jesus' life
as a husband and a father,
and dare we go into this area?
>>Yes, of course.
>>So why don't we go from there?
>>OK.
Well, yes, I suppose the main
thing that's come up recently
is the Da Vinci Code.
And was Jesus married?
Well, the Da Vinci Code
has actually just put this
into the public perspective.
But it's been around
obviously for years,
this question as to whether
he married Mary Magdalene.
And it seems quite
clear to me that he did.
They made a big fuss
about Leonardo Da Vinci
and his last supper
scene, of course,
and said that this is a
woman on the right hand side.
And lots of people will
stand up and say, no, no, no.
It's not possible.
Especially people from
the religious authorities
say it's not possible.
Strangely enough, that is
not an unusual depiction.
There are many
last supper scenes,
of course, that have been
painted around the world.
And if you go around the
stately homes of Britain,
you'll find quite a few last
supper scenes with a woman
on the right hand side of Jesus.
And quite clearly,
they are woman.
But I was surprised
because I was
doing some research
on a different topic
entirely in Ireland.
And I went out to a cathedral
just north of Dublin.
And there was a last
supper scene there as well.
This was a marble one.
It's quite well done
actually in white marble.
And quite clearly, the disciple
on the right hand side of Jesus
was a woman.
But this is a Catholic
cathedral in the middle
of Catholic Ireland.
And still, the disciple on
the right hand side of Jesus
was a woman.
And I did a little piece
for the local newspaper
and said it's a woman.
And of course, the custodians
of the church, of the cathedral
said, oh no, it's clearly not.
But everyone that--
And I'm sure you can show
a little depiction of it
as a part of this talk.
Quite clearly, everyone
I've spoken to have said,
yeah, it's a woman.
It can't be anything else.
So here we have
these secrets that
have been withheld
from the laity,
clearly held even within
the Catholic church.
They know that Mary Magdalene
was an important part,
the most important disciple
within the disciples.
And I go into a great deal
of detail about who she was,
what she was, and how her
history links back all the way
back to the [INAUDIBLE] of
the united monarchy, that
were these important
women who played out
important roles
within their theology.
They were known
as the god's wife.
And you will find a
lot of the reasoning
behind what Mary
Magdalene was doing
in the title of god's wife.
It comes back from Egypt
again because within Egypt--
Without going too
much into detail,
--god needed a consort.
And the original god, Atum,
did not have a consort.
There was no goddess equivalent.
And so he needed a consort.
And so the position of
god's wife was invented.
So we had this mortal
wife of the god.
And this tradition
has gone all the way
through the Egyptian eras,
all the way through the united
monarchy and into
the first century.
And I have no doubt
that Mary Magdalene
was the god's wife in that era.
And the names match up,
and many things match up.
And so she was Mary
Magdalene, Mary of the tower.
Magdalene means tower.
And the original
tower referred to
was probably something
to do with the pyramids.
So she was Mary of the tower.
She was the equivalent of Isis.
And of course, if we look
at the Madonna and child
imagery, of course, from the New
Testament, it's pure Egyptian.
It comes from Isis, of course.
And so she was a
manifestation of Isis.
But we see sort of
little manifestations
of Mary Magdalene
down the ages as well
because she was
lost from history.
You weren't able to mention her
as being such an important part
of the New Testament story.
And so we had all these
extra stories were made up,
fairy stories,
things like Rapunzel.
Rapunzel in the tower
with her golden hair.
Of course, Mary
Magdalene in the Talmud
is known as the
dresser of lady's hair.
And of course, Magdalene
itself means the tower.
And so the lady in the
tower with the hair.
It's just got to be a
reference to Mary Magdalene.
And so we get a lot of these
lost princess stories running
down through later.
>>Why was it so important to
demote her to a lowly woman
and see to it that
Jesus remained celibate?
>>It has to be the destruction
of the royal family.
As I said previously,
Saul set up Christianity.
It had nothing to do with the
Church of Jesus and James.
He could not be the
leader of that church
if there was a royal family
running alongside him,
who was still existent,
still had sons and daughters.
>>So she, in essence,
had to be demoted,
and he had to be written
out of the script.
>>The whole of that royal
family had to be destroyed.
Otherwise, the popes
could not be the popes.
And so they had to be destroyed.
>>So we go to the crucifixion.
So the crucifixion--
So was Jesus crucified?
Well, possibly.
But I don't think he
was crucified in A.D. 30
because all of these events
that we've been talking about,
the links with Josephus, the
being persecuted within Galilee
and so on, all of that
happened in about A.D. 60, 65.
>>And when would Mary have
come into the picture, had
he married her and
had children with her?
>>Well, they could have married
and had children at any time.
So we're probably
talking something
around A.D. 20,
25, 30 or something
for their particular marriage.
They could have had old
children by this time.
So all of these events
we've been talking about
didn't occur back in A.D. 30.
All of these events
happened in about A.D. 65.
So Jesus would have been
much older at this point.
He would have been
around 60 years old.
And Josephus would have been
much younger, around 30.
So the crucifixion,
if it happened,
did not happen in A.D. 30.
But of course, as
we go down the years
and come through A.D.
65, A.D. 70, of course,
then we enter the most
traumatic era in Judaic history.
And this was the destruction
of the temple of Jerusalem.
So there was a
civil war going on.
And this is part of the reason
for the story about the Mount
of Olives and why
there would have
been 30,000 soldiers on
the Mount of Olives going
to take Jerusalem
by storm, et cetera.
Why was that happening?
Well, there was a
civil war going on.
And what I'm saying,
of course, is
that Jesus was one of those
elements within that civil war.
And this is a real civil
war from history, of course.
But this civil war,
of course, started
to involve the Romans
because effectively this
was supposed to be
Roman territory.
And the last thing
the Romans wanted
was this major dispute going
on their eastern borders
because they were afraid
of Persia, of course.
And so Vespasian,
the army commander,
was sent to restore order
in the area, of course.
And so he went
all around Galilee
and destroyed all
the cities there,
et cetera, and regained
control of Galilee.
And then, of course, they
marched on Jerusalem itself.
And so then we have this major
event, the siege of Jerusalem.
And of course, at the end
of the siege of Jerusalem,
the Jews lose, of course.
Jerusalem is destroyed.
The people are either
killed during this assault
or they're taken off as slaves.
>>Or scattered about
in one way or another.
>>Or scattered, yes,
on a huge exodus again.
So all of the Jewish population
thrown out of Israel.
And hence, all this problem
we have today, of course,
with the Zionists wanting
to go back into Israel.
All of this occurred because
the Roman army dispersed
all of the Jews out of Israel.
But at the last
moment, of course--
And Josephus, this person
we've been talking about,
Saul Josephus, was a major
component within this war.
He was now working
for the Romans.
He had given up on the
Jews and working for Jesus.
And he was now
working for Vespasian
as propaganda minister.
Lord Haw Haw, if anyone knows
their World War II history.
We had the same sort of
event during World War II.
So effectively,
he was a traitor.
As far as the Jews
were concerned,
he was working for
the wrong side.
But, of course,
when Jerusalem fell,
he was in a perfect
position to write
a history of these events
and this era, which he did.
Not only that, he was
given some special thank
you presents by
Vespasian and Titus,
the army commanders of Rome.
He was given lands in Judea.
He was given a wife.
He was given all of the scrolls
from the temple of Jerusalem.
And this is why I depend so much
on his texts, not only his New
Testament texts, but
his Old Testament texts
as well, because he
had the original Torah
from the temple of Jerusalem.
So his Torah, his Old
Testament, is far more ancient
and far more authoritative
than any Torah
we have existent today.
And this is why I tend to
rely on his texts very much.
But he was given one
other special present.
He asked a favor of
Titus because when
he entered Jerusalem,
there were three
of his previous acquaintances--
Remember now he's
on the wrong side.
He's on the Roman side.
So these acquaintances
would have
been the rebels in Jerusalem.
And so he saw
three acquaintances
on crosses being crucified
in the remains of Jerusalem.
And he asked a special favor
for them to be taken down.
And they were taken down.
And only one survived.
So here we have a story
about three people
being on a cross,
who were associates
or previous friends of Josephus.
Only one of them survived.
And the person who takes them
down from the cross, of course,
was called Josephus, Joseph.
And here, I think, we
probably see a link
into a biblical history
because, of course,
the person who took
Jesus down from the cross
was called Joseph of Arimathea.
And it seems to be an
incredibly similar story,
that I think it is
most probably linked.
But of course, we're just
looking at a different era.
This didn't happen
in A.D 30 or 33.
This business with Jesus'
resurrection in A.D. 30,
33, was a simple Masonic
third degree raising
>>Thirty-third degree, yeah.
>>It's a third
degree razor, same
as any Mason would
go through today,
where they symbolically die, and
they are raised from the dead.
So yes, these events
were not from that era.
These were from A.D. 70,
destruction of Jerusalem,
a major event, which is
strangely absent from the New
Testament, very
strangely absent.
Why is it missing?
This was the most
upsetting event
in the whole of Judaic history,
and yet it's not there.
Why?
Well, I think it's been
sort of slipped in,
in a slightly different era.
And if you want to look at
the true story of the New
Testament, you have to go
to the Jewish War, which
was a book written by Josephus.
And it follows the same
sort of chronology,
the same people,
the same events.
But it's just taken from
a secular viewpoint,
instead of a
religious viewpoint.
So we've got these two
books were written.
One was a religious book
of this era and the events.
And one was a secular one.
One was written for his new
church, the Church of Saul.
And the other was
written for the Romans
because the Romans wanted
a history of this era.
And so he wrote two books.
One was secular.
One was religious.
And they went to
different people.
>>And so the one of the three
that survived may have been--
>>May have been--
>>May have been Jesus.
>>But remember, of course,
this Jesus in this era
would have been 65
years old, of course.
He already had children.
>>He already had his
family, the bloodline.
>>We don't need him
to survive in order
to maintain the bloodline.
We know that he had children.
At least, we can be as
fairly sure as we can.
There's an interesting
confrontation between Saul
and someone called
Jesus on his travels.
And he has this violent
argument with this guy,
and ends up blinding him.
Why did he have an
argument with this guy?
Why was he so upset?
Well, his name was
Jesus, of course.
And the last thing Saul
wanted on his travels
around the Mediterranean
was someone
called Jesus, a son of Jesus,
he was called Ben Jesus,
saying that what you're
saying is rubbish.
And this is effectively
what this guy was saying.
Don't believe it.
What Saul is telling
you is rubbish.
It didn't happen that way.
That's why he had an argument
with this particular person.
And this particular person was
called Ben Jesus, son of Jesus.
So I'm pretty sure that he
did have sons and daughters.
And so some of them,
of course, would
have escaped either prior to
the destruction of Jerusalem
or after.
And they would have gone off,
maybe to the South of France.
And hence, we have
all the stories
of Mary Magdalene in
the South of France.
>>Wow.
What a journey.
So I think we're going
to wrap it up there.
And again, I will
highly encourage
any of you viewing this to
purchase a copy of the books
and dig in.
It's fascinating research.
And certainly, we're in a
time where, in my opinion,
everything is up for review.
>>Indeed, it is.
>>Thank you.
>>I hope you've
enjoyed this interview.
As I've said before,
everything is up for review
as new information
begins surfacing
as to our histories
and religions.
If you want to continue
along this thread,
you may also enjoy my
interview with Acharya S.
Until next time,
thanks for watching.